configure HTTPS documentation (#65271)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/setup-grafana/set-up-https.md

---
aliases:
  - 
keywords:
  - grafana
  - https
  - ssl
  - certificates
title: Set up Grafana HTTPS for Secure Web Traffic
weight: 900
---

# Set up Grafana HTTPS for Secure Web Traffic

The Grafana UI is accessed through the web. Setting up HTTPS ensures that
communication going back and forth between Grafana and the end user is encrypted, to include
login information and metric data.

> In order to accomplish this, Grafana needs a key to use for encrypting the traffic, and a
> [Secure Socket Layer (SSL) certificate](https://www.kaspersky.com/resource-center/definitions/what-is-a-ssl-certificate) that helps establish the identity of the site. With these two things, 
> users can see the proper browser "lock icon" indicating their connection is secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to ensure secure traffic over the internet, Grafana must have a key for encryption as well as a [Secure Socket Layer (SSL) Certificate](https://www.kaspersky.com/resource-center/definitions/what-is-a-ssl-certificate) to verify the identity of the site. This will display a browser "lock icon" which confirms the connection is safe.
```

![secure HTTPS connection](/media/docs/grafana/https-config/screenshot-secure-https.png)

> This page will outline how to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic shows you how to:
```

1. Obtain a certificate and key
2. Configure Grafana HTTPS
3. Restart the Grafana server

> ## Obtain a Certificate and Key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Obtain a certificate and key
```

> There are two different methods of accomplishing this, depending on your needs. The
> _self-signed_ method is faster and easier, but results in browser warnings the end user
> will see. The Certificate Authority (CA) signed
> approach requires extra steps, but enables full browser trust.  If you would like to
> read a full treatment of the difference between these approaches,
> [it can be found here](https://www.baeldung.com/cs/self-signed-ca-vs-certificate). You
> should choose only one of the next two sections to follow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two methods you can use to obtain a certificate and a key. The faster and easier _self-signed_ option might show browser warnings to the user that they will have to accept each time they visit the site. Alternatively, the Certificate Authority (CA) signed option requires more steps to complete, but it enables full trust with the browser. To learn more about the difference between these options, refer to [Difference between self-signed CA and self-signed certificate](https://www.baeldung.com/cs/self-signed-ca-vs-certificate). Choose only one of the two sections to follow.

```

The following image shows a browser lock icon which confirms the connection is safe.

{{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/https-config/screenshot-secure-https.png" max-width="500px" caption="Secure HTTPS connection" >}}

This topic shows you how to:

1. Obtain a certificate and key
2. Configure Grafana HTTPS
3. Restart the Grafana server

## Before you begin
- [list prereqs here, like permissions etc.]
- [list prereqs here, like knowledge of certain subjects...]

## Obtain a certificate and key

You can use one of two methods to obtain a certificate and a key. The faster and easier _self-signed_ option might show browser warnings to the user that they will have to accept each time they visit the site. Alternatively, the Certificate Authority (CA) signed option requires more steps to complete, but it enables full trust with the browser. To learn more about the difference between these options, refer to [Difference between self-signed CA and self-signed certificate](https://www.baeldung.com/cs/self-signed-ca-vs-certificate).

### Generate a self-signed certificate

This section shows you how to use `openssl` tooling to generate all necessary files from the command line.  

> 1. Run the following command to [add what this does]:

Reviewer: @moxious , let's add what this command does.

   
   ```bash
   $ sudo openssl genrsa -out /etc/grafana/grafana.key 2048
   ```

> 1. Run the following command to [add what this does]:

Reviewer: @moxious , let's add what this command does.

   ```bash
   $ sudo openssl req -new -key /etc/grafana/grafana.key -out /etc/grafana/grafana.csr
   ```

   When prompted, answer the questions, which might include your fully-qualified domain name, email address, country code, and others. The following example is similar to the prompts you will see.

   ```
   You are about to be asked to enter information that will be incorporated
   into your certificate request.
   What you are about to enter is what is called a Distinguished Name or a DN.
   There are quite a few fields but you can leave some blank
   For some fields there will be a default value,
   If you enter '.', the field will be left blank.
   -----
   Country Name (2 letter code) [AU]:US
   State or Province Name (full name) [Some-State]:Virginia
   Locality Name (eg, city) []:Richmond
   Organization Name (eg, company) [Internet Widgits Pty Ltd]:
   Organizational Unit Name (eg, section) []:
   Common Name (e.g. server FQDN or YOUR name) []:subdomain.mysite.com
   Email Address []:me@mysite.com

   Please enter the following 'extra' attributes
   to be sent with your certificate request
   A challenge password []:
   An optional company name []:
   ```

> 1. Run the following command to [add what this does]:

Reviewer: @moxious , let's add what this command does.

   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   (Y)es/(N)o: n
   Account registered.
   Please enter the domain name(s) you would like on your certificate (comma and/or
   space separated) (Enter 'c' to cancel): subdomain.mysite.com
   Requesting a certificate for subdomain.mysite.com
   
   Successfully received certificate.
   Certificate is saved at: /etc/letsencrypt/live/subdomain.mysite.com/fullchain.pem
   Key is saved at:         /etc/letsencrypt/live/subdomain.mysite.com/privkey.pem
   This certificate expires on 2023-06-20.
   These files will be updated when the certificate renews.
   Certbot has set up a scheduled task to automatically renew this certificate in the background.
   
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   If you like Certbot, please consider supporting our work by:
   * Donating to ISRG / Let’s Encrypt:   https://letsencrypt.org/donate
   * Donating to EFF:                    https://eff.org/donate-le
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   ```

#### Set up symlinks to Grafana

> [Need an introduction here that explains what this is]

Reviewer: @moxious , we'll need an intro to this section.

To set up symlinks to Grafana, run the following commands:

```bash
$ sudo ln -s /etc/letsencrypt/live/subdomain.mysite.com/privkey.pem /etc/grafana/grafana.key
$ sudo ln -s /etc/letsencrypt/live/subdomain.mysite.com/fullchain.pem /etc/grafana/grafana.crt
```

> #### Adjust Permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Adjust permissions
```

---
aliases:
  - 
keywords:
  - grafana
  - https
  - ssl
  - certificates
title: Set up Grafana HTTPS for secure web traffic
menuTitle: Set up HTTPS
weight: 900
---

# Set up Grafana HTTPS for secure web traffic

When accessing the Grafana UI through the web, it is important to set up HTTPS to ensure the communication between Grafana and the end user is encrypted, including login credentials and retrieved metric data.

In order to ensure secure traffic over the internet, Grafana must have a key for encryption and a [Secure Socket Layer (SSL) Certificate](https://www.kaspersky.com/resource-center/definitions/what-is-a-ssl-certificate) to verify the identity of the site. 

The following image shows a browser lock icon which confirms the connection is safe.

{{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/https-config/screenshot-secure-https.png" max-width="500px" caption="Secure HTTPS connection" >}}

This topic shows you how to:

1. Obtain a certificate and key
2. Configure Grafana HTTPS
3. Restart the Grafana server

## Before you begin

> - You will need shell access to the system and `sudo` access to perform actions as root, or administrator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You must have shell access to the system and `sudo` access to perform actions as root or administrator.
```

> - For the CA-signed option, you will need a domain name you control assigned to the machine you are working on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For the CA-signed option, you need a domain name that you possess and that is associated with the machine you are using.
```

   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   (Y)es/(N)o: n
   Account registered.
   Please enter the domain name(s) you would like on your certificate (comma and/or
   space separated) (Enter 'c' to cancel): subdomain.mysite.com
   Requesting a certificate for subdomain.mysite.com
   
   Successfully received certificate.
   Certificate is saved at: /etc/letsencrypt/live/subdomain.mysite.com/fullchain.pem
   Key is saved at:         /etc/letsencrypt/live/subdomain.mysite.com/privkey.pem
   This certificate expires on 2023-06-20.
   These files will be updated when the certificate renews.
   Certbot has set up a scheduled task to automatically renew this certificate in the background.
   
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   If you like Certbot, please consider supporting our work by:
   * Donating to ISRG / Let’s Encrypt:   https://letsencrypt.org/donate
   * Donating to EFF:                    https://eff.org/donate-le
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   ```

#### Set up symlinks to Grafana

> Symlinks are like pointers on your filesystem that allow us to refer to the LetsEncrypt files, from within the `/etc/grafana` directory.  The reason we use symlinks to the "live" files instead of copying the files is to permit you to later refresh or re-request updated certificates from LetsEncrypt using `certbot`, without needing to change any Grafana configuration.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Symlinks are like pointers on your filesystem that allow us to refer to the LetsEncrypt files, from within the `/etc/grafana` directory.  The reason we use symlinks to the "live" files instead of copying the files is to permit you to later refresh or re-request updated certificates from LetsEncrypt using `certbot`, without needing to change any Grafana configuration.  

Symbolic links, also known as symlinks, enable you to create pointers to existing LetsEncrypt files in the `/etc/grafana` directory. By using symlinks rather than copying files, you can use `certbot` to refresh or request updated certificates from LetsEncrypt without the need to reconfigure the Grafana settings.
```

---

> aliases:

Reviewer 2: I think we should remove this key from the front matter since we don't have any aliases.

We need to remove this line and line three.

Reviewer: great, thx!

> aliases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
